20260122 SCIM batch (#4088)
kanidm/kanidm: book/src/entry_management.md

# Entry Management

Kanidm supports a SCIM based entry management/migration process. This process allows configuration management tools such

> an ansible or salt to deploy json formatted person and group records that can be imported to the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible or Salt to deploy JSON formatted person and group records that can be imported to the server.
```

## Migration Path

Migrations are stored in the path defined by `server.toml`:`migration_path`. The default for containers is
`/data/migrations.d`.

Files within the folder must match the pattern `xx-name.json` where `xx` are numeric digits. For example the following
are valid names:

- `00-base.json`
- `99-user.json`
- `80-group-defines.json`

The following are invalid:

- `data.json` - missing preceeding numbers and hyphen.
- `00base.json` - missing `-` between numbers and name.
- `00-base.scim` - incorrect file extension.

## Record Syntax

Entries can be asserted to be present, and in a specific attribute state. Or they can be absent from the database.
Attributes of an entry can be removed by setting them to `null`.

> ```toml

Reviewer 2: incorrect format. should be json

{{#rustdoc_include ../../examples/migrations/00-basic.json}}
```

This example is located in
[examples/server_container.toml](https://github.com/kanidm/kanidm/blob/master/examples/migrations/00-basic.json).

## Recommendations

Migrations should only be deployed to a single node in your Kanidm topology. Replication will ensure that all nodes have
a consistent state. This prevents races or flip-flop conditions that could otherwise occur.

## Application Details

There are some important details for how Kanidm applies these migrations. This is due to the fact that Kanidm is a

> distributed system, and we strive to ensure that all users data is consistent and as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distributed system, and we strive to ensure that all data is consistent and correct.
```
